FAQ: Document what is available from Gitpod during the docker build process (#3959)
gitpod-io/website: src/content/docs/configure/workspaces/workspace-image.md

See also [Gero's blog post](/blog/docker-in-gitpod) running through an example.

### What's available from Gitpod during the docker container build process

**Available:**

> -   Git repository at CWD.

Author: This is a really good point, thanks @kylos101 !
I just tried [here](https://github.com/axonasif/test/tree/multi_repo) and it doesn't work. Possibly because you can only supply one source directory root as context (i.e. the main repo), which Gitpod does.

Quoting from the official dockerfile ref docs:
> COPY obeys the following rules:
> - The <src> path must be inside the context of the build; you cannot COPY ../something /something, because the first step of a docker build is to send the context directory (and subdirectories) to the docker daemon.
> - If <src> is a directory, the entire contents of the directory are copied, including filesystem metadata.

>     > For example, you can copy your repository inside the container and execute a script present in the repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > For example, you can copy your repository inside the image and execute a script:
```

    >
    > ```dockerfile
    > FROM gitpod/workspace-full
    >
    > # At first copy the repository files to ${TARGET_DIR}
    > ARG TARGET_DIR="/tmp/work"
    > COPY --chown gitpod:gitpod . "${TARGET_DIR}"
    >
    > # Let's suppose there is a bash script in our repository, we can try to execute it
    > RUN cd "${TARGET_DIR}" && bash ./scripts/compile.sh
    > ```

**Not available:**

> -   [Gitpod environment variables](/docs/configure/projects/environment-variables), not available due to security reasons.

Author: Thanks for validating 🙏

>     > If you want to access Gitpod environment variables or build an image with sensitive information, you may build it inside your Gitpod workspace. Here's what you could do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion	
    > If you want to access Gitpod environment variables when building images using the Docker daemon running in your workspace. Here's what you could do:
```

Reviewer: In other words, Gitpod environment variables can be accessing from our Docker daemon running in workspace. But, it cannot be accessed when building workspace images (as an image build workspace, or through `gp validate`).

    >
    > -   Prepare a custom dockerfile (`.gitpod.Dockerfile`), example contents:
    >
    > ```dockerfile
    > FROM gitpod/workspace-full
    >
    > # Lets suppose DOWNLOAD_URL is saved as a Gitpod environment variable
    > RUN curl -L "${DOWNLOAD_URL}" -o "${HOME}/payload.tar"
    > ```
    >

>     > -   Build a container with such a command: `docker build --build-arg DOWNLOAD_URL -f .gitpod.Dockerfile .`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > -   Build an image using the Docker daemon running in your workspace like so: `docker build --build-arg DOWNLOAD_URL -f .gitpod.Dockerfile .`
```
